  Do you know how to report what somebody else said? Test what you know with interactive exercises and read the explanation to help you.
  Look at these examples to see how we can tell someone what another person said.
    direct speech: 'I love the Toy Story films,' she said.
indirect speech: She said she loved the Toy Story films.

direct speech: 'I worked as a waiter before becoming a chef,' he said.
indirect speech: He said he'd worked as a waiter before becoming a chef.

direct speech: 'I'll phone you tomorrow,' he said.
indirect speech: He said he'd phone me the next day.
  Try this exercise to test your grammar.
  Read the explanation to learn more.
  ## Grammar explanation
  Reported speech is when we tell someone what another person said. To do this, we can use direct speech or indirect speech.
    'I work in a bank,' said Daniel.
    Daniel said that he worked in a bank.
  In indirect speech, we often use a tense which is 'further back' in the past (e.g. worked) than the tense originally used (e.g. work). This is called 'backshift'. We also may need to change other words that were used, for example pronouns.
  ### Present simple, present continuous and present perfect
  When we backshift, present simple changes to past simple, present continuous changes to past continuous and present perfect changes to past perfect.
    'I travel a lot in my job.'
    - Jamila said that she travelled a lot in her job.
    'The baby's sleeping!'
    - He told me the baby was sleeping.
    'I've hurt my leg.'
    - She said she'd hurt her leg.
  ### Past simple and past continuous
  When we backshift, past simple usually changes to past perfect simple, and past continuous usually changes to past perfect continuous.
    'We lived in China for five years.'
    - She told me they'd lived in China for five years.
    'It was raining all day.'
    - He told me it had been raining all day.
  ### Past perfect
  The past perfect doesn't change.
    'I'd tried everything without success, but this new medicine is great.'
    - He said he'd tried everything without success, but the new medicine was great.
  ### No backshift
  If what the speaker has said is still true or relevant, it's not always necessary to change the tense. This might happen when the speaker has used a present tense.
    'I go to the gym next to your house.'
    - Jenny told me that she goes to the gym next to my house. I'm thinking about going with her.
    'I'm working in Italy for the next six months.'
    - He told me he's working in Italy for the next six months. Maybe I should visit him!
    'I've broken my arm!'
    - She said she's broken her arm, so she won't be at work this week.
  ### Pronouns, demonstratives and adverbs of time and place
  Pronouns also usually change in indirect speech.
    'I enjoy working in my garden,' said Bob.
    - Bob said that he enjoyed working in his garden.
    'We played tennis for our school,' said Alina.
    - Alina told me they'd played tennis for their school.
  However, if you are the person or one of the people who spoke, then the pronouns don't change.
    'I'm working on my thesis,' I said.
    - I told her that I was working on my thesis.
    'We want our jobs back!' we said.
    - We said that we wanted our jobs back.
  We also change demonstratives and adverbs of time and place if they are no longer accurate.
    'This is my house.'
    - He said this was his house. [You are currently in front of the house.]
    - He said that was his house. [You are not currently in front of the house.]
    'We like it here.'
    - She told me they like it here. [You are currently in the place they like.]
    - She told me they like it there. [You are not in the place they like.]
    'I'm planning to do it today.'
    - She told me she's planning to do it today. [It is currently still the same day.]
    - She told me she was planning to do it that day. [It is not the same day any more.]
  In the same way, these changes to those, now changes to then, yesterday changes to the day before, tomorrow changes to the next/following day and ago changes to before.
  Do this exercise to test your grammar again.
  Try another grammar lesson
  ### Language level
      B1 Intermediate
                Give it 1/5
                Give it 2/5
                Give it 3/5
                Give it 4/5
                Give it 5/5
                4.2
                188
      Submitted by Grilled_marshmallow on Thu, 28/11/2024 - 08:03
      Permalink
        Hello,
        So I was given these questions
        The first one goes
        “Who has been using my computer,sons?” said my father.
        So I answered
        My father asked us who had been using his computer.
        I’m not really sure about this answer
        Also I don’t feel quite certain that using “us” for “sons”.
        Another one is
        “Who are you and what do you want?” said the poor man to the princess.
        I answered
        The poor man asked the princess who she is and what she wanted.
        Can you please check those?
        It’ll be better if you also provide answers and explain.
        Many thanks,
        Ashlynn
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Fri, 29/11/2024 - 06:21
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello Ashlynn,
            “Who has been using my computer, sons?” said my father.
            > My father asked us who had been using his computer.
          This is fine as long as you are one of his sons. If you are not them 'asked them' or 'asked his sons' would be better.
            “Who are you and what do you want?” said the poor man to the princess.
            > The poor man asked the princess who she is and what she wanted.
          This is not grammatically incorrect and I can see why you have chosen to use a present form (is - something still true) and a past form (wanted - something true at the time which may not be true now). However, just for reasons of style I would suggest 'was' here. It can be used for something that is still true as well as for something only true at the time of speaking, and it seems better stylistically to me to have two past forms rather than switching.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Messileena on Thu, 17/04/2025 - 11:34
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hi, Grilled_marshmallow,
          “Who has been using my computer,sons?” said my father.
          Your answer the the above question is: My father asked us who had been using his computer. It is grammatically correct.
          “Who are you and what do you want?” said the poor man to the princess.
          You answer should be: the poor man asked the princess who  she was and what she wanted.
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by katt_79 on Sun, 20/10/2024 - 15:58
      Permalink
        Hello,
        I was given this question:
        Give the correct form of the verbs in brackets.
        "We just (decide) ... that we (undertake) ... the job."
        My answer is "We have just decided that we would undertake the job", but my friend argues that 'have just decided' is still PRESENT so 'would undertake' is incorrect.
        Please give me the correct answer and the explanation for it.
        Many thanks!
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Mon, 21/10/2024 - 06:16
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello katt_79,
          I think multiple answers are possible here but the most likely are as follows:
            - have just decided > will take
            - had just decided > would take
          The first describes a decision in the present (or immediate past) and a consequence of that expressed as a belief, promise or statement about the future.
          The second describes the same situation in the past.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
          Submitted by katt_79 on Tue, 22/10/2024 - 16:51
          In reply to by
          Permalink
            Thank you!
          - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by 343463 on Wed, 21/08/2024 - 14:13
      Permalink
        Betty said, „If I knew the answer, I would tell you.”
        = Betty said that if she had known the answer she would have told me/us.
        hi, why isn't this "she would tell me/us."? Since would is a modal and tell is in present simple so it is supposed to be "would tell".
        Thanks for answering
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Thu, 22/08/2024 - 05:53
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello 343463,
          It's not always necessary to shift the verb form/tense back from past to past perfect in reported speech, so you could just say this:
            Betty said that if she knew the answer she would tell me/us.
          In fact, this is the most common choice. It implies that Betty still does not know the answer and still cannot tell us.
          If you want to emphasise that you are talking about a particular time in the past, and that perhaps the situation has changed (she did not know then but later found out, for example), then shifting the past to the past perfect is needed:
            Betty said that if she had known the answer she would have told me/us.
          Here we do not know if Betty knows the answer now or not; the sentence is situated in past time and describes a situation in the past without telling us anything about the present.
          Your question is really about whether we can mix these. It is possible in certain contexts where a past situation influences the present or future. For example:
            If I had passed my driving test last week I would apply for this job.
          Here, a past situation (not passing the test) is influencing a future action (applying for a job). However, I would say that this construction does not fit your example. The reason is that having the knowledge is something that stays with us, not something we do at a particular moment. If Betty is going to tell us that answer in the future it is not because she knew the answer in the past but because she knows the answer generally. To compare to my example above, having the answer is similar to having a driving license (a permanent state), not to passing the test (a single action). Just as we would not say 'If I had had a driving license', so we would not say 'If Betty had known the answer...' with future results.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by kamil2828 on Sun, 18/08/2024 - 16:37
      Permalink
        I said to my friend."can you pick me up after  work."
        Report this speech please! 🥺
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Mon, 19/08/2024 - 06:32
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello kamil2828,
          On this site we provide explanations and help but we don't just provide answers to questions as we would end up just doing people's homework and tests for them! I can give you this help, however: the construction you need is ask + someone + to verb.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
    #### Pagination
    - Current page
1
    - Page
2
    - Page
3
    - Page
4
    - Page
5
    - Page
6
    - Page
7
    - Page
8
    - Page
9
    - …
    - Next page
next
    - Last page
last
          Do you need to improve your English grammar?
          Join thousands of learners from around the world who are improving their English grammar with our online courses.
          Find out more
