  Do you know how to add emphasis using cleft sentences, inversion or auxiliaries? Test what you know with interactive exercises and read the explanation to help you.
  Look at these examples to see how we use these structures.
    What he loves about hiking is that it doesn't feel like exercise.
Not only did she sing at the talent show, she also danced!
I know it may surprise you, but I really do know quite a bit about this.
  Try this exercise to test your grammar.
  Read the explanation to learn more.
  ## Grammar explanation
  We can use different grammatical structures to add emphasis, either to a whole sentence or to highlight one particular part of it.
  ### Cleft sentences
  Cleft sentences allow us to emphasise different parts of the sentence, depending on which part is the most important. Cleft sentences are usually introduced by it or by a clause beginning with what.
  #### Cleft sentences beginning with it
  Here is a simple sentence with no particular emphasis.
    You invited me to the party yesterday.
  We can emphasise different elements of this sentence by 'fronting' them, that is, moving them to the front of the sentence after it + be.
    It was you who invited me to the party yesterday.
Emphasis: you (not another person)
    It was yesterday that you invited me to the party.
Emphasis: yesterday (not another time)
    It was the party that you invited me to yesterday.
Emphasis: the party (not another event)
  #### Cleft sentences beginning with what
  What clauses + be are common in spoken English. They emphasise the part of the sentence that is outside the what clause.
    What I like best about going to the cinema is talking about the film afterwards.
What drives me up the wall is people talking during the film. 
What I found was that the films my friends liked were very different from the ones I liked.
  This kind of cleft sentence can also begin with where, why, who, how, etc.
    How the kids did this is still unclear to me.
  We can also put the what clause at the end of the sentence.
    The game we played was what I liked the most.
  ### Inversion with negative adverbials
  We can also use inversion to add emphasis. It has a more formal, persuasive and impressive effect.
  To invert a sentence, we put the adverbial (e.g. never, rarely, not only, etc.) at the beginning and change the normal position of the subject and the auxiliary verb.
    Rarely have I read such an original story.
(I have rarely read such an original story.)
  If there is no auxiliary verb, we need to add one.
    Not only do they have live reptiles but you can also touch them.
(They not only have live reptiles but you can also touch them.)
  #### Little, no sooner and not
  Some other negative words and expressions used like this are little, no sooner, never and not.
    Little did I realise that the restaurant was about to close. 
(I didn't realise that the restaurant was about to close.)
    No sooner had we got inside than the concert ended!
    Not a single positive comment did I hear from Will.
  ### Emphatic auxiliaries
  In spoken English, we often stress the auxiliary verb to add emphasis.
    A: Why aren't you coming to my birthday party?
B: I am coming! Who told you I'm not?!
  If there is no auxiliary verb, we can use do, does or did to add emphasis. This works in both spoken and written English.
    A: I know you weren't keen on the exhibition.
B: I did like some of it. (You thought I didn't like it.)
    A: Maybe that's why she was so happy.
B: That does make sense, actually. (I hadn't understood why before.)
  In British English, do can also be used this way to make a command more emphatic. This sounds quite formal.
    Do sit down, please.
Do be quiet!
  Do this exercise to test your grammar again.
  ### Language level
      C1 Advanced
                Give it 1/5
                Give it 2/5
                Give it 3/5
                Give it 4/5
                Give it 5/5
                4.4
                64
      Submitted by jjjaved on Fri, 25/04/2025 - 12:48
      Permalink
        If there is no auxiliary verb, we need to add one.
          Not only do they have live reptiles but you can also touch them.
(They not only have live reptiles but you can also touch them.)
          Even though this sentence has the given have auxiliary verb why do put in this sentence
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Sat, 26/04/2025 - 09:02
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello jjjaved,
          The original sentence does not have an auxiliary verb. The verb 'have' is the main verb, not an auxiliary, and the auxiliary for 'have' is 'do'. You can see this if you make a question with 'have':
          I have a car. [have as the main verb]
          Do you have a car. [do as the auxiliary for have]
          If we use 'have got' then we have two parts to the verb and in this case 'have' is the auxiliary:
          I have got a car. [have is the auxiliary]
          Have you got a car? [the auxiliary is used in the question]
          You can see the difference in your example if you try it with have and with have got:
            They have not only got live reptiles but you can also touch them.
            > Not only have they got live reptiles but you can also touch them.
          but
            They not only have live reptiles but you can also touch them.
            > Not only do they have live reptiles but you can also touch them.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
          Submitted by Joy1010 on Thu, 01/05/2025 - 01:53
          In reply to by
          Permalink
            Please where can i learn more about verbs
          - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by EDEN LE on Sun, 02/03/2025 - 22:47
      Permalink
        Hi teacher!
        Could you help me with this question?
        In the sentence: "It is I who likes reading books." Why do we have S in LIKES?
        Thanks so much.
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Mon, 03/03/2025 - 05:56
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hi EDEN LE,
          This is an example of a defining relative clause and in this construction 'who' is usually treated as a third-person form in modern English. It can be singular or plural, so if the subject in the main clause is we, you (plural) or they then we use a plural verb form:
            It is they who like reading books.
          and if the subject is I, you (singular) or he/she/it then we use a singular form:
            It is you who likes reading books.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by SERJ- on Tue, 28/01/2025 - 13:13
      Permalink
        Hello!
        Can you explain why we use wa s instead of is in this sentece?
        It was my high school teacher who inspired me to become a writer".
        Grammatically, both sentences are correct, but they have slightly different nuances due to the use of "is" versus "was."
        - "It is my high school teacher who inspired me to become a writer."
This emphasizes the teacher's ongoing influence on your life. Using "is" makes the statement feel more immediate, as if the inspiration is still fresh or relevant in the present.
        - "It was my high school teacher who inspired me to become a writer."
This situates the inspiration in the past. It's a reflection, acknowledging a moment or period when the teacher influenced
      - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by Sumizaki on Tue, 07/01/2025 - 12:35
      Permalink
        Question 7
        Why is 'call your family' the correct anwer?
        Shoudn't it be either
        calling or
        to call?
        Thanks
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Wed, 08/01/2025 - 06:24
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello Sumizaki,
          Cleft sentences add emphasis to a certain part of the sentence - the subject, for example, or the object. We can also add emphasis to the action (the verb) and when we form a cleft sentence with this purpose we use 'do' in the introductory phrase and the verb we are emphasising in the base form. This is true whether the sentence is present or past:
            What we do next is phone the client.
            What we did next was phone the client.
          You can use any very in this way, even 'be':
            What you should try to do is be nice.
            What you should have done is be nice.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by sowhat on Mon, 04/11/2024 - 19:50
      Permalink
        After reading ellipses, I also thought that we do emphasizing in formal writing what you listed under that topic by adding some words while we do emphasizing in informal writing and speaking by omitting unnecessary words to prevent the person from losing focus, and just to direct the person's attention into necessary words, core topic, that's in order to get to the point. Am I right?
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Tue, 05/11/2024 - 06:20
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello sowhat,
          I think it's quite nuanced. On the one hand, formal writing uses more complex and elaborate structures and lexis, while informal writing has shorter sentences and simpler constructions. On the other hand, formal writing tends to be more focused on the message and to avoid extraneous comment, while informal writing often includes asides and filler phrases such as if you know what I mean or when you think about it. I think it's hard to generalise, to be honest.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
    #### Pagination
    - Current page
1
    - Page
2
    - Page
3
    - Page
4
    - Page
5
    - Next page
next
    - Last page
last
          Do you need to improve your English grammar?
          Join thousands of learners from around the world who are improving their English grammar with our online courses.
          Find out more
