  Do you know how to use inversion in conditional sentences? Test what you know with interactive exercises and read the explanation to help you.
  Look at these examples to see how we can create conditionals with inversion.
    Should you have any questions, I will be happy to help.
Were they to sell their house today, they would make a huge profit on it.
I would've taken you out for lunch had I known you were in town.
  Try this exercise to test your grammar.
  Read the explanation to learn more.
  ## Grammar explanation
  We use conditionals to describe the result of a condition. Often, we use if to introduce the condition (e.g. If you feel hot, …) and the main clause to give the result (... feel free to switch on the aircon).
  Conditional sentences can also be created without if, using inversion. Inversion means reversing (inverting) the normal subject–verb word order in a sentence. This makes the sentence more formal.
  Three types of conditionals can be formed using inversion: first, second and third conditionals.
  ### First conditional
  We use the first conditional to talk about future situations we believe are possible.
    Marker pens are in the cupboard if you ever need one.
If a customer wishes to cancel their booking, they should notify us within seven days.
  To invert first conditional sentences, we replace if with the auxiliary verb should and change the verb into the infinitive. This makes the situation seem a little less likely. It is often used to make a polite request or offer.
    Marker pens are in the cupboard should you ever need one.
Should a customer wish to cancel their booking, they should notify us within seven days.
  ### Second conditional
  We use the second conditional to talk about situations that we consider unlikely or impossible in reality.
    How would the environment be affected if everyone reduced their meat consumption?
If the Sun disappeared, Earth would no longer be able to support life.
  To invert second conditional sentences, we replace if with were and change the verb form to to + infinitive.
    How would the environment be affected were everyone to reduce their meat consumption?
Were the Sun to disappear, Earth would no longer be able to support life.
  Note that if a second conditional sentence uses the verb be, we don't need the infinitive for the inverted version. We just replace the existing form of be with were, and invert the subject and verb.
    If California were a country, it would be one of the world's largest economies.
Were California a country, it would be one of the world's largest economies.
  ### Third conditional
  The third conditional is used to imagine a change in a past situation and how things would have been different in the past as a result.
    If we had lost that match, it would've been a disaster.
We would have fixed that problem by now if we'd known about it earlier.
  To invert third conditional sentences, we remove if and invert the subject and the auxiliary verb had.
    Had we lost that match, it would've been a disaster.
We would have fixed that problem by now had we known about it earlier.
  ### Negative inverted conditionals
  To make negative inverted conditionals, we put not after the subject.
    Should you not consent to sharing this information, you may inform our company at any time. (= If you don't consent …)
Were I not good at maths, I'd find this homework very challenging. (= If I wasn't good at maths …)
Had I not been busy this morning, I would have attended the meeting. (= If I hadn't been busy …)
  Do this exercise to test your grammar again.
  ### Language level
      C1 Advanced
                Give it 1/5
                Give it 2/5
                Give it 3/5
                Give it 4/5
                Give it 5/5
                4.5
                99
      Submitted by Coment on Mon, 28/04/2025 - 16:06
      Permalink
        Hello.
Could someone please help me with the next sentence from 1st test on this page?

6.If I am accepted into the training programme, I will study extremely hard. 

My answer:
Were I accepted into the training programme, I would study extremely hard.
But I can't change the second part of the sentence((
Thank you.
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Thu, 01/05/2025 - 06:57
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello Coment,
          Using 'Were' changes the meaning of the sentence, making it more hypothetical/unlikely. The original sentence uses 'If I am... / I will study...', which is more certain and suited to the kind of promise the speaker is making.
          To invert a sentence like this use 'should': Should I be accepted... / I will study...
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by Rainer Winkler on Mon, 17/03/2025 - 09:57
      Permalink
        Hello guys,
        this article helped me a lot.
        Greetings
        R.W.
      - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by danielcanton on Thu, 20/02/2025 - 17:44
      Permalink
        Hello
        Is there any difference between ''If it were possible...'' and ''If it was possible...'' ?
        When do you use each?
        Thank you
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Fri, 21/02/2025 - 07:06
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello danielcanton,
          If it were is an example of the subjunctive in English and it is a form which is gradually disappearing. In modern English you can hear both forms are used and there is no difference in meaning.
          If it were used to be seen as the only correct option and if it was as incorrect but this has changed over time. However, I would say that if it was is certainly less formal and some people (grammatical traditionalists, let's say) might consider it non-standard so you are probably safer sticking with if it were to be on the safe side.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by LizaEva on Wed, 02/10/2024 - 09:06
      Permalink
        Could anyone explain why to use "for" in these conditional sentences: "Were it not for school being compulsory,..." and "Had it not been for the gorgeous weather,…"? Thank you.
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Thu, 03/10/2024 - 07:08
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello LizaEva,
          We use 'for' in this way in conditional sentences:
            If it were not for school being compulsory, ...
            If it had not been for the beautiful weather, ...
          Your examples are conditional sentences using inversion. As to why we have this form, I don't know what the origin is. I can tell you another form of it using 'but', however, which you can come across in more formal contexts:
            But for school being compulsory, ...
            But for the beautiful weather, ...
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by 343463 on Fri, 13/09/2024 - 14:49
      Permalink
        hello, I have a few questions
        "Until then, it had been banned, AS HAD all forms of advertising."
        1, What is 'as had'? is this a form of inversion? (my teacher said it is)
        2, what's its meaning?
        3, does it have a particular structure or does the word 'as' just go with 'had'?
        4, do you know when and how to use this?
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Sat, 14/09/2024 - 05:50
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello 343463,
            Until then, it had been banned, AS HAD all forms of advertising.
          'As' here shows a similarity or parallel.
          It is a form of inversion. Seeing the sentence without inversion should help to clarity the construction:
            Until then, it had been banned, just as all forms of advertising had (been banned).
          The second clause uses a past perfect form and the auxiliary verb 'had' appears as part of that construction. The auxiliary is used to form the inverted form and the rest of the past perfect verb phrase is omitted to avoid repetition. If the sentence were in the past simple of present simple then a different auxiliary would be used:
            Until then, it was banned, as were all forms of advertising.
            Until then, it is banned, as are all forms of advertising.
          I think that covers all of your questions. It's not a form particularly associated with 'had' but rather an inverted verb form. Note that the subject must be the same in both clauses. If the subject in the first clause changes then the second clause will follow:
          Until then, we ban it, as do all responsible governments.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by _Yan_ on Fri, 13/09/2024 - 11:56
      Permalink
        Dear team, I have a few questions below. Thank you very much!
        It was incredible! Never had|have I seen such an exciting tennis match.
        - If ‘have’ is used, it means I just saw something that was incredible right? (While if ‘had’ is used, the speaker is actually describing a past event?)
        No sooner had the tickets gone on sale than they sold out.
        - Does it mean tickets were sold out very quickly after sale began? (No sooner had…)
        Test 2) Never again did|could|will I trust him after he told them my secret.
        - Why can’t we use do?
        Test 2) Never will|did I forget the kindness they treated us with.
        - Can we use ‘do’ or ‘would’ (and is there any difference between “would” and “will” if used in this context?)
      - Log in or register to post comments
    #### Pagination
    - Current page
1
    - Page
2
    - Page
3
    - Page
4
    - Next page
next
    - Last page
last
          Do you need to improve your English grammar?
          Join thousands of learners from around the world who are improving their English grammar with our online courses.
          Find out more
