  Do you know how to give contrasting information using conjunctions such as despite, much as and whereas? Test what you know with interactive exercises and read the explanation to help you.
  Look at these examples to see how we can give contrasting information.
    Although she now flies down the slopes, it took her years to learn to ski well.
He's really busy. He still offered to help, though.
I passed the exam even though I hardly studied.
While I don't agree, I understand their point of view.
Much as I'd love a holiday this year, I just can't afford it.
  Try this exercise to test your grammar.
  ## Grammar explanation
  Although, despite, even if, even though, in spite of, much as, though, whereas and while are all used to link two contrasting ideas or show that one fact makes the other fact surprising.
  They can all be used at the beginning or in the middle of the sentence.
    In spite of the heavy rain, the hikers continued climbing the mountain.
The hikers continued climbing the mountain in spite of the heavy rain.
  The main difference between these conjunctions is that they are followed by different structures.
  ### In spite of and despite
  After in spite of and despite, we use a noun phrase or -ing form of a verb.
    We arrived on time in spite of missing the train.
Their restaurant succeeded despite the bad reviews.
  It's common to use in spite of and despite with the expression the fact that, so that it can be followed by a subject and verb.
    We arrived on time, in spite of the fact that we missed the train.
Their restaurant succeeded, despite the fact that they received bad reviews.
  ### Although, though and even though
  After although, though and even though, we use a subject and a verb. They mean the same thing, but even though is slightly stronger and more emphatic than although and though.
    Although Marjorie lost the election, many more people voted for her than the first time.
I love my Italian conversation class, though I struggled at first.
Even though my team lost, it was great to be in the stadium for the final.
  Though can also go at the end of the second phrase. This way of expressing contrasting ideas is most common in spoken English.
    I didn't know anyone when I first got to uni. I soon made friends, though.
  ### Even if
  Even if means 'whether or not' or 'no matter whether'. It's followed by a subject and a verb.
    Even if you are an expert swimmer, you should be careful at this beach.
  ### While and whereas
  While is a conjunction that is most commonly used with time, but it can also be used to mean 'despite the fact that' or 'although'.
    While I made some mistakes in my driving exam, I still passed.
  In this sense, while comes at the beginning of the sentence.
  While and whereas can be used to mean 'but' or 'compared with the fact that', to compare two contradictory ideas.
    While/Whereas Ivan is very sociable, his brother is more reserved.
My trip home was quick and easy, whereas/while my colleagues were delayed for hours.
  In this sense, while/whereas can come at the beginning of the sentence or between the two contradictory clauses.
  ### Much as
  Much as is a more formal expression. It means 'although', 'despite how much' or 'no matter how much'.
    Much as I enjoyed studying abroad, it was good to return home.
  Do this exercise to test your grammar again.
  ### Language level
      C1 Advanced
                Give it 1/5
                Give it 2/5
                Give it 3/5
                Give it 4/5
                Give it 5/5
                4.6
                66
      Submitted by SERJ- on Mon, 13/01/2025 - 07:30
      Permalink
        Hello!
        In second question of the second test only one answer is correct - whereas.
        I think we can aslso use "despite" here.
        2. _____ socialising energises some people, it leaves others feeling tired and drained.
        Despite
        In spite of the fact
        Whereas
        Despite socialising energising some people, it leaves others feeling tired and drained.
        Thw same refers to this sentence.
        Despite the fact that I'm fluent in Spanish, I still get nervous if I have to give a presentation.
        Why we can't use "even though" in this sentence?
        Even though I'm fluent in Spanish, I still get nervous if I have to give a presentation."
        Thanks
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Tue, 14/01/2025 - 08:26
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello SERJ-,
          Despite is not correct here. The explanation on the page says that we use a noun or an -ing form after despite. Here, there is an -ing form but it is not used as a noun object but as the subject of a verb following it: socialising energises (subject + verb). When we have a subject and a verb we need 'despite the fact that', as the explanation says.
          You can use even though in your sentence. However, your sentence is not the same as the sentence in the exercise. In the exercise the sentence includes 'that', and in that example even though is not possible. With these kinds of exercises you need to read and re-read the sentence very carefully. It's important if you plan on taking an exam in English at any point so you get full credit for your knowledge.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by ShetuYogme on Sat, 14/12/2024 - 08:27
      Permalink
        Hello LearnEnglish team,
        We can give contrasting information using but, yet, still, nevertheles and nonetheles etc.
        So, what is the difference between these words, and, when and how to use these words correctly?
        Thank you.
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Sun, 15/12/2024 - 06:44
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello ShetuYogme,
          Let's use this example: It was -20C. I went for a run.
          There is a contrast here: a situation (extreme cold) and a surprising event (going for a run).
          Some linkers are used to introduce the situation:
            Although/Even though/Though/In spite of the fact that it was cold, I went for a run.
          Others are used to introduce the surprise:
            It was cold but/yet I went for a run.
          Others are used to introduce the surprise, but must begin a new sentence:
            It was cold. Still/Nevertheless/Nonetheless/However, I went for a run.
          In terms of style, nevertheless and nonetheless are very formal.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by Aung Qui on Wed, 13/11/2024 - 03:53
      Permalink
        Hello Sir,
        I enjoyed maths as a child, whiIe I found it difficult.
        Can I use like this?
        Thank you.
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Wed, 13/11/2024 - 06:36
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello Aung Qui,
          While can be used to show a contrast like this but the clause with while comes first:
            WhiIe I found it difficult, I enjoyed maths as a child.
          You can also use though, although and even though here, and with these the clauses can come in any order:
            Though I found it difficult, I enjoyed maths as a child.
            I enjoyed maths as a child, though I found it difficult.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by Jolo on Wed, 07/08/2024 - 17:12
      Permalink
        Hello!
        Please, could you solve a doubt about the use of English.
        Could you say this sentence:
        - Although she now flies down the slopes, it took her years to learn to ski well.
        like
        2. Although she now flies down the slopes, it took her years to learn HOW to ski well
        and if it is possible, is there any meaning change?
        Thank you
      - Log in or register to post comments
        Submitted by Peter M. on Thu, 08/08/2024 - 05:53
        In reply to by
        Permalink
          Hello Jolo,
          Both sentences are possible and I don't think there is any difference in meaning.
          Peter
          The LearnEnglish Team
        - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by Kiriku on Sat, 03/08/2024 - 12:01
      Permalink
        I think these questions are a quite easy to comprehend. I got them easily at the first attempt.
      - Log in or register to post comments
      Submitted by marcelomartel86 on Fri, 15/03/2024 - 15:57
      Permalink
        Hi there,
        I´d appriciate some insights on the difference between "although and while" since according to the explanation, they can be used similarly.
        - _____ the delays caused by the bad weather, the trip went quite smoothly
        Although is the answer and sounds correct to me. However, why would "While" can´t work here since both of them seem to have the same meaning. I suspect that the difference might be just idiomatic.
        Thanks,
        Marcelo
      - Log in or register to post comments
    #### Pagination
    - Current page
1
    - Page
2
    - Page
3
    - Next page
next
    - Last page
last
          Do you need to improve your English grammar?
          Join thousands of learners from around the world who are improving their English grammar with our online courses.
          Find out more
